Creating a Discord Server (#193)
o3de/community: process-docs-and-markdown/discord-setup.md

# Discord Setup

> - [Discord Setup](#discord-setup)
>     + [Test](#test)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Explanation of what Discord is and why it's a good platform for community building](#explanation-of-what-discord-is-and-why-its-a-good-platform-for-community-building)
- [Overview of the main steps involved in setting up a Discord server](#overview-of-the-main-steps-involved-in-setting-up-a-discord-server)
- [Defining the purpose and goals of the server ](#defining-the-purpose-and-goals-of-the-server-)
- [Identifying the target audience and their needs](#identifying-the-target-audience-and-their-needs)
- [Creating a server roadmap and establishing guidelines and rules](#creating-a-server-roadmap-and-establishing-guidelines-and-rules)
- [Server Setup](#server-setup)
- [Creating a new server and configuring its basic settings](#creating-a-new-server-and-configuring-its-basic-settings)
- [Setting up roles and permissions for different user groups](#setting-up-roles-and-permissions-for-different-user-groups)
- [Creating channels and categories to organize content and discussions](#creating-channels-and-categories-to-organize-content-and-discussions)
- [Choosing a server icon and background image](#choosing-a-server-icon-and-background-image)
- [Customizing roles and channels with colors and emojis](#customizing-roles-and-channels-with-colors-and-emojis)
- [Creating custom welcome messages and announcements](#creating-custom-welcome-messages-and-announcements)
- [Integrations and Bots](#integrations-and-bots)
- [Adding useful bots for moderation, announcements, and automation](#adding-useful-bots-for-moderation-announcements-and-automation)
- [Integrating third-party services like YouTube, Twitter, and GitHub](#integrating-third-party-services-like-youtube-twitter-and-github)
- [Promotion and Growth](#promotion-and-growth)
- [Inviting members and promoting the server on social media and other platforms](#inviting-members-and-promoting-the-server-on-social-media-and-other-platforms)
- [Encouraging member participation and feedback](#encouraging-member-participation-and-feedback)
- [Moderation and Maintenance](#moderation-and-maintenance)
- [Establishing a moderation team and guidelines](#establishing-a-moderation-team-and-guidelines)
- [Monitoring server activity and enforcing rules](#monitoring-server-activity-and-enforcing-rules)
- [Regularly updating and improving the server based on member feedback and analytics](#regularly-updating-and-improving-the-server-based-on-member-feedback-and-analytics)
- [Conclusion](#conclusion)
- [Additional resources and tips for server administration and community management.](#additional-resources-and-tips-for-server-administration-and-community-management)
```

## Introduction

> ### Explanation of what Discord is and why it's a good platform for community building

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### What's Discord and why it's a good platform for community building
```

5.	Keep it concise: Finally, when creating custom welcome messages and announcements, it's important to keep it concise. Avoid using long blocks of text or overwhelming your members with too much information. Keep your messages short and to the point, and include links or additional information for members who want to learn more. <br>

If you're interested in creating a welcome screen for your Discord community, check out Discord's official support article on the topic: "Community Server Welcome Screen." This article provides step-by-step instructions on how to create and customize a welcome screen, as well as tips for making it engaging and informative for your community members. You can find this article on Discord's official support website: https://support.discord.com/hc/en-us/articles/360043913591-Community-Server-Welcome-Screen.

## Integrations and Bots

### Adding useful bots for moderation, announcements, and automation

Discord bots are a great way to enhance your server's functionality, automate repetitive tasks, and keep your community engaged. Some popular bots that you might consider adding to your server include: <br>

> 1.	MEE6 - A bot that can perform automated moderation tasks such as banning and muting members, logging chat, and running custom commands. <br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.	[MEE6](https://mee6.xyz/en) - A bot that can perform automated moderation tasks such as banning and muting members, logging chat, and running custom commands. <br>
```

> 1.	MEE6 - A bot that can perform automated moderation tasks such as banning and muting members, logging chat, and running custom commands. <br>
> 2.	Dyno - A fully customizable bot that can perform a wide range of moderation tasks, as well as providing utility functions such as role management, auto-moderation, and custom commands. <br>
> 3.	Carl-bot - A powerful bot that offers features such as custom commands, automated moderation, and message logging. <br>
> 4.	Dank Memer - A fun bot that can generate memes, play games, and provide entertainment for members. <br>
> 5.	Rythm - A music bot that can play music from multiple sources such as YouTube and Soundcloud. <br>
> 6.	Groovy - Another popular music bot that can play music from multiple sources including Spotify. <br>
> 7.	Tatsumaki - A multi-purpose bot that can perform moderation tasks, as well as offering utility functions such as custom commands and server statistics. <br>
> 8.	Arcane - A bot that can perform automated moderation tasks such as anti-spam and anti-raid protection, as well as providing custom commands and utility functions. <br>
> 9.	ProBot - A bot that can perform automated moderation tasks, provide custom commands, and automate server maintenance tasks. <br>
> 10.	YAGPDB - A bot that can perform moderation tasks, provide custom commands, and automate server maintenance tasks. <br>
> 11.	Nadeko - A bot that can perform moderation tasks, provide custom commands, and integrate with multiple third-party services such as Twitch and Reddit. <br>
> 12.	Discord Dungeons - A bot that can provide a game-like experience for members, where they can battle monsters and earn rewards. <br>
> 13.	Serum - A bot that can provide moderation functions, as well as custom commands and utility functions. <br>
> 14.	ServerStats - A bot that can track server statistics such as member count, message count, and more. <br>
> 15.	GAwesome Bot - A bot that can perform a wide range of moderation tasks, provide custom commands, and automate server maintenance tasks. <br>
> 16.	Ticket Tool - A bot that allows users to create support tickets and manage them in Discord. <br>
> 17.	Arcane - A bot with features like moderation, logging, and more. <br>

Reviewer: - Wasn't able to find the Serum bot - is it still available? If so, add back in and provide a link
- Removed duplicate Arcane
```suggestion
1.	[MEE6](https://mee6.xyz/en) - A bot that can perform automated moderation tasks such as banning and muting members, logging chat, and running custom commands. <br>
2.	[Dyno](https://dyno.gg/) - A fully customizable bot that can perform a wide range of moderation tasks, as well as providing utility functions such as role management, auto-moderation, and custom commands. <br>
3.	[Carl-bot](https://carl.gg/) - A powerful bot that offers features such as custom commands, automated moderation, and message logging. <br>
4.	[Dank Memer](https://dankmemer.lol/) - A fun bot that can generate memes, play games, and provide entertainment for members. <br>
5.	[Rythm](https://rythm.fm/) - A music bot that can play music from multiple sources such as YouTube and Soundcloud. <br>
6.	[Groovy](https://groovy.bot/) - Another popular music bot that can play music from multiple sources including Spotify. <br>
7.	[Tatsumaki](https://tatsu.gg/) - A multi-purpose bot that can perform moderation tasks, as well as offering utility functions such as custom commands and server statistics. <br>
8.	[Arcane](https://arcane.bot/) - A bot that can perform automated moderation tasks such as anti-spam and anti-raid protection, as well as providing custom commands and utility functions. <br>
9.	[ProBot](https://probot.io/) - A bot that can perform automated moderation tasks, provide custom commands, and automate server maintenance tasks. <br>
10.	[YAGPDB](https://yagpdb.xyz/) - A bot that can perform moderation tasks, provide custom commands, and automate server maintenance tasks. <br>
11.	[Nadeko](https://nadeko.bot/) - A bot that can perform moderation tasks, provide custom commands, and integrate with multiple third-party services such as Twitch and Reddit. <br>
12.	[Discord Dungeons](https://discorddungeons.me/) - A bot that can provide a game-like experience for members, where they can battle monsters and earn rewards. <br>
13.	[ServerStats](https://serverstatsbot.com/) - A bot that can track server statistics such as member count, message count, and more. <br>
14.	[GAwesome Bot](https://github.com/GAwesomeBot/bot) - A bot that can perform a wide range of moderation tasks, provide custom commands, and automate server maintenance tasks. <br>
15.	[Ticket Tool](https://tickettool.xyz/) - A bot that allows users to create support tickets and manage them in Discord. <br>
```

Another way to gather feedback is by monitoring conversations and interactions on the server. This can help moderators identify areas where members may be struggling or experiencing issues, and allow them to address these issues proactively. <br>

Analytics can also be a valuable tool for improving the server. Discord offers built-in analytics that can provide information on server growth, member engagement, and activity levels. This data can be used to identify trends and patterns, and help moderators make informed decisions about how to improve the server. <br>

Once feedback and analytics have been collected, it is important to take action and implement changes based on this information. This can include updating the community guidelines, adding new features to the server, or adjusting moderation practices to better align with member needs. <br>

Regularly updating and improving the server not only helps to keep the community engaged, but also demonstrates a commitment to listening to member feedback and addressing their concerns. By using feedback and analytics to inform decisions, a community can create a more positive and engaging environment for all members. <br>

> One useful tool for managing a large Discord community is Statbot (https://statbot.net/). Statbot provides a range of analytics and moderation features that can help server owners and moderators track server activity, identify trends, and enforce server rules. Some of the key features of Statbot include real-time activity tracking, custom dashboard creation, moderation automation, and detailed reports on server growth and engagement. With these features, Statbot can help server owners and moderators stay on top of their community and make data-driven decisions to improve engagement and support among members. Additionally, Statbot integrates with a range of other Discord bots and tools, making it a versatile and powerful addition to any server management toolkit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One useful tool for managing a large Discord community is [Statbot](https://statbot.net/). Statbot provides a range of analytics and moderation features that can help server owners and moderators track server activity, identify trends, and enforce server rules. Some of the key features of Statbot include real-time activity tracking, custom dashboard creation, moderation automation, and detailed reports on server growth and engagement. With these features, Statbot can help server owners and moderators stay on top of their community and make data-driven decisions to improve engagement and support among members. Additionally, Statbot integrates with a range of other Discord bots and tools, making it a versatile and powerful addition to any server management toolkit.
```

# Discord Setup

> - [Introduction](#introduction)
> - [Explanation of what Discord is and why it's a good platform for community building](#explanation-of-what-discord-is-and-why-its-a-good-platform-for-community-building)
> - [Overview of the main steps involved in setting up a Discord server](#overview-of-the-main-steps-involved-in-setting-up-a-discord-server)
> - [Defining the purpose and goals of the server ](#defining-the-purpose-and-goals-of-the-server-)
> - [Identifying the target audience and their needs](#identifying-the-target-audience-and-their-needs)
> - [Creating a server roadmap and establishing guidelines and rules](#creating-a-server-roadmap-and-establishing-guidelines-and-rules)
> - [Server Setup](#server-setup)
> - [Creating a new server and configuring its basic settings](#creating-a-new-server-and-configuring-its-basic-settings)
> - [Setting up roles and permissions for different user groups](#setting-up-roles-and-permissions-for-different-user-groups)
> - [Creating channels and categories to organize content and discussions](#creating-channels-and-categories-to-organize-content-and-discussions)
> - [Choosing a server icon and background image](#choosing-a-server-icon-and-background-image)
> - [Customizing roles and channels with colors and emojis](#customizing-roles-and-channels-with-colors-and-emojis)
> - [Creating custom welcome messages and announcements](#creating-custom-welcome-messages-and-announcements)
> - [Integrations and Bots](#integrations-and-bots)
> - [Adding useful bots for moderation, announcements, and automation](#adding-useful-bots-for-moderation-announcements-and-automation)
> - [Integrating third-party services like YouTube, Twitter, and GitHub](#integrating-third-party-services-like-youtube-twitter-and-github)
> - [Promotion and Growth](#promotion-and-growth)
> - [Inviting members and promoting the server on social media and other platforms](#inviting-members-and-promoting-the-server-on-social-media-and-other-platforms)
> - [Encouraging member participation and feedback](#encouraging-member-participation-and-feedback)
> - [Moderation and Maintenance](#moderation-and-maintenance)
> - [Establishing a moderation team and guidelines](#establishing-a-moderation-team-and-guidelines)
> - [Monitoring server activity and enforcing rules](#monitoring-server-activity-and-enforcing-rules)
> - [Regularly updating and improving the server based on member feedback and analytics](#regularly-updating-and-improving-the-server-based-on-member-feedback-and-analytics)
> - [Conclusion](#conclusion)
> - [Additional resources and tips for server administration and community management.](#additional-resources-and-tips-for-server-administration-and-community-management)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Introduction](#introduction)
  - [What's Discord and why it's a good platform for community building](#whats-discord-and-why-its-a-good-platform-for-community-building)
  - [Overview of the main steps involved in setting up a Discord server](#overview-of-the-main-steps-involved-in-setting-up-a-discord-server)
  - [Defining the purpose and goals of the server ](#defining-the-purpose-and-goals-of-the-server-)
  - [Identifying the target audience and their needs](#identifying-the-target-audience-and-their-needs)
  - [Creating a server roadmap and establishing guidelines and rules](#creating-a-server-roadmap-and-establishing-guidelines-and-rules)
- [Server Setup](#server-setup)
  - [Creating a new server and configuring its basic settings](#creating-a-new-server-and-configuring-its-basic-settings)
  - [Setting up roles and permissions for different user groups](#setting-up-roles-and-permissions-for-different-user-groups)
  - [Creating channels and categories to organize content and discussions](#creating-channels-and-categories-to-organize-content-and-discussions)
  - [Choosing a server icon and background image](#choosing-a-server-icon-and-background-image)
  - [Customizing roles and channels with colors and emojis](#customizing-roles-and-channels-with-colors-and-emojis)
  - [Creating custom welcome messages and announcements](#creating-custom-welcome-messages-and-announcements)
- [Integrations and Bots](#integrations-and-bots)
  - [Adding useful bots for moderation, announcements, and automation](#adding-useful-bots-for-moderation-announcements-and-automation)
  - [Integrating third-party services like YouTube, Twitter, and GitHub](#integrating-third-party-services-like-youtube-twitter-and-github)
- [Promotion and Growth](#promotion-and-growth)
  - [Inviting members and promoting the server on social media and other platforms](#inviting-members-and-promoting-the-server-on-social-media-and-other-platforms)
  - [Encouraging member participation and feedback](#encouraging-member-participation-and-feedback)
- [Moderation and Maintenance](#moderation-and-maintenance)
  - [Establishing a moderation team and guidelines](#establishing-a-moderation-team-and-guidelines)
  - [Monitoring server activity and enforcing rules](#monitoring-server-activity-and-enforcing-rules)
  - [Regularly updating and improving the server based on member feedback and analytics](#regularly-updating-and-improving-the-server-based-on-member-feedback-and-analytics)
- [Conclusion](#conclusion)
  - [Additional resources and tips for server administration and community management.](#additional-resources-and-tips-for-server-administration-and-community-management)
```

4.	Review the rule with moderators: Before implementing the new rule, review it with your server's moderators to ensure that it's fair, enforceable, and aligns with the server's overall goals. <br>
5.	Communicate the new rule: Once the new rule is finalized, communicate it to the community members in a clear and concise manner. You may want to announce the new rule in a server-wide announcement, pin it in the rules channel, or both. <br>
6.	Enforce the rule: Enforcing the new rule is just as important as communicating it. Make sure that moderators and administrators are aware of the new rule and prepared to enforce it. Additionally, make sure that community members know how to report rule violations and that there are consequences in place for violating the rules. <br>

By following these steps, you can create additional rules that address specific issues within your community and ensure that your Discord server remains a welcoming and safe space for all members.

## Server Setup

### Creating a new server and configuring its basic settings

> Sign in to Discord or create a new account if you haven't already. <br>
> Click on the plus (+) icon located on the left side of the Discord app or website. <br>
> Select the "Create a Server" option and choose a name for your server. <br>
> Choose a region for your server (this is the location where the server is hosted). <br>
> Select an icon for your server. This will be the small image that represents your server throughout Discord. <br>
> Click on the "Create" button to finalize the creation of your server. <br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Sign in to Discord or create a new account if you haven't already. <br>
1. Click on the plus (+) icon located on the left side of the Discord app or website. <br>
1. Select the "Create a Server" option and choose a name for your server. <br>
1. Choose a region for your server (this is the location where the server is hosted). <br>
1. Select an icon for your server. This will be the small image that represents your server throughout Discord. <br>
1. Click on the "Create" button to finalize the creation of your server. <br>
```

If you're interested in creating a welcome screen for your Discord community, check out Discord's official support article on the topic: "Community Server Welcome Screen." This article provides step-by-step instructions on how to create and customize a welcome screen, as well as tips for making it engaging and informative for your community members. You can find this article on Discord's official support website: https://support.discord.com/hc/en-us/articles/360043913591-Community-Server-Welcome-Screen.

## Integrations and Bots

### Adding useful bots for moderation, announcements, and automation

Discord bots are a great way to enhance your server's functionality, automate repetitive tasks, and keep your community engaged. Some popular bots that you might consider adding to your server include: <br>

1.	[MEE6](https://mee6.xyz/en) - A bot that can perform automated moderation tasks such as banning and muting members, logging chat, and running custom commands. <br>

> 2.	Dyno - A fully customizable bot that can perform a wide range of moderation tasks, as well as providing utility functions such as role management, auto-moderation, and custom commands. <br>
> 3.	Carl-bot - A powerful bot that offers features such as custom commands, automated moderation, and message logging. <br>
> 4.	Dank Memer - A fun bot that can generate memes, play games, and provide entertainment for members. <br>
> 5.	Rythm - A music bot that can play music from multiple sources such as YouTube and Soundcloud. <br>
> 6.	Groovy - Another popular music bot that can play music from multiple sources including Spotify. <br>
> 7.	Tatsumaki - A multi-purpose bot that can perform moderation tasks, as well as offering utility functions such as custom commands and server statistics. <br>
> 8.	Arcane - A bot that can perform automated moderation tasks such as anti-spam and anti-raid protection, as well as providing custom commands and utility functions. <br>
> 9.	ProBot - A bot that can perform automated moderation tasks, provide custom commands, and automate server maintenance tasks. <br>
> 10.	YAGPDB - A bot that can perform moderation tasks, provide custom commands, and automate server maintenance tasks. <br>
> 11.	Nadeko - A bot that can perform moderation tasks, provide custom commands, and integrate with multiple third-party services such as Twitch and Reddit. <br>
> 12.	Discord Dungeons - A bot that can provide a game-like experience for members, where they can battle monsters and earn rewards. <br>
> 13.	ServerStats - A bot that can track server statistics such as member count, message count, and more. <br>
> 14.	GAwesome Bot - A bot that can perform a wide range of moderation tasks, provide custom commands, and automate server maintenance tasks. <br>
> 15.	Ticket Tool - A bot that allows users to create support tickets and manage them in Discord. <br>
> 16.	Arcane - A bot with features like moderation, logging, and more. <br>

Reviewer: Add links to bots, remove duplicate Arcane
```suggestion
2.	[Dyno](https://dyno.gg/) - A fully customizable bot that can perform a wide range of moderation tasks, as well as providing utility functions such as role management, auto-moderation, and custom commands. <br>
3.	[Carl-bot](https://carl.gg/) - A powerful bot that offers features such as custom commands, automated moderation, and message logging. <br>
4.	[Dank Memer](https://dankmemer.lol/) - A fun bot that can generate memes, play games, and provide entertainment for members. <br>
5.	[Rythm](https://rythm.fm/) - A music bot that can play music from multiple sources such as YouTube and Soundcloud. <br>
6.	[Groovy](https://groovy.bot/) - Another popular music bot that can play music from multiple sources including Spotify. <br>
7.	[Tatsumaki](https://tatsu.gg/) - A multi-purpose bot that can perform moderation tasks, as well as offering utility functions such as custom commands and server statistics. <br>
8.	[Arcane](https://arcane.bot/) - A bot that can perform automated moderation tasks such as anti-spam and anti-raid protection, as well as providing custom commands and utility functions. <br>
9.	[ProBot](https://probot.io/) - A bot that can perform automated moderation tasks, provide custom commands, and automate server maintenance tasks. <br>
10.	[YAGPDB](https://yagpdb.xyz/) - A bot that can perform moderation tasks, provide custom commands, and automate server maintenance tasks. <br>
11.	[Nadeko](https://nadeko.bot/) - A bot that can perform moderation tasks, provide custom commands, and integrate with multiple third-party services such as Twitch and Reddit. <br>
12.	[Discord Dungeons](https://discorddungeons.me/) - A bot that can provide a game-like experience for members, where they can battle monsters and earn rewards. <br>
13.	[ServerStats](https://serverstatsbot.com/) - A bot that can track server statistics such as member count, message count, and more. <br>
14.	[GAwesome Bot](https://github.com/GAwesomeBot/bot) - A bot that can perform a wide range of moderation tasks, provide custom commands, and automate server maintenance tasks. <br>
15.	[Ticket Tool](https://tickettool.xyz/) - A bot that allows users to create support tickets and manage them in Discord. <br>

```
